README.md, before:

# Seth
Reliable and debug-friendly Ethereum client

[![Decoding tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_decode.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_decode.yml)
[![Tracing tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_trace.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_trace.yml)
[![API tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_api.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_api.yml)
[![CLI tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_cli.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_cli.yml)
[![Integration tests (testnets)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_decode_testnet.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_decode_testnet.yml)
<br/>

## Goals
- Be a thin, debuggable and battle tested wrapper on top of `go-ethereum`
- Decode all transaction inputs/outputs/logs for all ABIs you are working with, automatically
- Simple synchronous API
- Do not handle `nonces` on the client side, trust the server
- Do not wrap `bind` generated contracts, small set of additional debug API
- Resilient: should execute transactions even if there is a gas spike or an RPC outage (failover)
- Well tested: should provide a suite of e2e tests that can be run on testnets to check integration

## Examples
Check [examples](./examples) folder

Lib is providing a small amount of helpers for decoding handling that you can use with vanilla `go-ethereum` generated wrappers
```
// Decode waits for transaction and decode all the data/errors
Decode(tx *types.Transaction, txErr error) (*DecodedTransaction, error)

// NewTXOpts returns a new sequential transaction options wrapper,
// sets opts.GasPrice and opts.GasLimit from seth.toml or override with options
NewTXOpts(o ...TransactOpt) *bind.TransactOpts

// NewCallOpts returns a new call options wrapper
NewCallOpts(o ...CallOpt) *bind.CallOpts
```

By default, we are using the `root` key `0`, but you can also use `keys` from `keyfile.toml`
```
// NewCallKeyOpts returns a new sequential call options wrapper from the key N
NewCallKeyOpts(keyNum int, o ...CallOpt) *bind.CallOpts

// NewTXKeyOpts returns a new transaction options wrapper called from the key N
NewTXKeyOpts(keyNum int, o ...TransactOpt) *bind.TransactOpts
```

Start `Geth` in a separate terminal, then run the examples
```
make GethSync
cd examples
go test -v
```

## Setup
We are using [nix](https://nixos.org/)

Enter the shell
```
nix develop
```

## Building contracts
We have `go-ethereum` and [foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry) tools inside `nix` shell
```
make build
```

## Testing
To run tests on a local network, first start it
```
make AnvilSync
```
Or use latest `Geth`
```
make GethSync
```

You can use default `hardhat` key `ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80` to run tests

Run the [decode](./client_decode_test.go) tests
```
make network=Anvil root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test
make network=Geth root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test
```
Check other params in [seth.toml](./seth.toml), select any network and use your key for testnets

User facing API tests are [here](./client_api_test.go)
```
make network=Anvil root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_api
make network=Geth root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_api
```

CLI tests
```
make network=Anvil root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_cli
make network=Geth root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_cli
```

Tracing tests
```
make network=Anvil root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_trace
make network=Geth root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_trace
```

# Config
### env vars
Some crucial data is stored in env vars, create `.envrc` and use `source .envrc`, or use `direnv`
```
export SETH_LOG_LEVEL=info # global logger level
export SETH_CONFIG_PATH=seth.toml # path to the toml config
export SETH_KEYFILE_PATH=keyfile.toml # keyfile path for using multiple keys
export NETWORK=Geth # selected network
export ROOT_PRIVATE_KEY=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 # root private key

alias seth="go run cmd/seth/seth.go" # useful alias for keyfile CLI
```

If `SETH_KEYFILE_PATH` is not set then client will create 60 ephemeral keys and won't return any funds

Use `SETH_KEYFILE_PATH` for testnets/mainnets and `ephemeral` mode only when testing against simulated network
### seth.toml
Set up your ABI directory (relative to `seth.toml`)
```
abi_dir = "contracts/abi"
```

Setup your BIN directory (relative to `seth.toml`)
```
bin_dir = "contracts/bin"
```

You can enable auto-tracing for all transactions, which means that every time you use `Decode()` we will not only decode the transaction but also trace all calls made within the transaction, together with all inputs, outputs, logs and events
```
tracing_enabled = true
```

Additionally you can also enable saving all tracing information to JSON files with:
```
trace_to_json = true
```

You can add more networks like this:
```
[[Networks]]
name = "Fuji"
chain_id = "43113"
transaction_timeout = "30s"
# gas limit should be explicitly set only if you are connecting to a node that's incapable of estimating gas limit itself (should only happen for very old versions)
# gas_limit = 9_000_000
# gas limit for sending funds
transfer_gas_fee = 21_000
# legacy transactions
gas_price = 1_000_000_000
# EIP-1559 transactions
eip_1559_dynamic_fees = true
gas_fee_cap = 25_000_000_000
gas_tip_cap = 1_800_000_000
urls_secret = ["..."]
# if set to true we will check if address has a pending nonce (transaction) and panic if it does
pending_nonce_protection_enabled = false
# if set to true we will dynamically estimate gas for every transaction (explained in more detail below)
gas_price_estimation_enabled = true
# how many last blocks to use, when estimating gas for a transaction
gas_price_estimation_blocks = 1000
# priority of the transaction, can be "fast", "standard" or "slow" (the higher the priority, the higher adjustment factor and buffer will be used for gas estimation) [default: "standard"]
gas_price_estimation_tx_priority = "slow"
```

If you want to save addresses of deployed contracts, you can enable it with:
```
save_deployed_contracts_map = true
```


If you want to re-use previously deployed contracts you can indicate file name in `seth.toml`:
```
contract_map_file = "deployed_contracts_mumbai.toml"
```
Both features only work for live networks. Otherwise, they are ignored, and nothing is saved/read from for simulated networks.

## CLI

### Multiple keys manipulation (keyfile.toml)
To use multiple keys in your tests you can create a `keyfile.toml` using CLI

Set up the alias, see `.envrc` configuration above
```
alias seth="go run cmd/seth/seth.go"
```

Create a new `keyfile` with 10 new accounts funded from the root key (KEYS env var)
```
seth -n Geth keys split -a 10
```
Run the tests, then return funds back, when needed
```
seth -n Geth keys return
```
Update the balances
```
seth -n Geth keys update
```
Remove the `keyfile`
```
seth -n Geth keys remove
```
### Manual gas price estimation
In order to adjust gas price for a transaction, you can use `seth gas` command
```
seth -n Fuji gas -b 10000 -tp 0.99
```
This will analyze last 10k blocks and give you 25/50/75/99th/Max percentiles for base fees and tip fees

`-tp 0.99` requests the 99th tip percentile across all the transaction in one block and calculates 25/50/75/99th/Max across all blocks

### Bulk tracing
You can trace multiple transactions at once using `seth trace` command. Example:
```
SETH_CONFIG_PATH=seth.toml go run cmd/seth/seth.go -n=Geth trace -f reverted_transactions.json
```

You need to pass a file with a list of transaction hashes to trace. The file should be a JSON array of transaction hashes, like this:
```
[
  "0x...",
  "0x...",
  "0x...",
  ...
]
```

(Note that currently Seth automatically creates `reverted_transactions_<network>_<date>.json` with all reverted transactions, so you can use this file as input for the `trace` command.)

## Features
- [x] Decode named inputs
- [x] Decode named outputs
- [x] Decode anonymous outputs
- [x] Decode logs
- [x] Decode indexed logs
- [x] Decode old string reverts
- [x] Decode new typed reverts
- [x] EIP-1559 support
- [x] Multi-keys client support
- [x] CLI to manipulate test keys
- [x] Simple manual gas price estimation
- [ ] Tuned gas prices for testnets (optimized for fast transaction times)
- [ ] Fail over client logic
- [ ] Decode collided event hashes
- [x] Tracing support (4byte)
- [x] Tracing support (callTracer)
- [ ] Tracing support (prestate)
- [x] Tracing decoding
- [x] Tracing tests
- [ ] More tests for corner cases of decoding/tracing
- [x] Saving of deployed contracts mapping (`address -> ABI_name`) for live networks
- [x] Reading of deployed contracts mappings for live networks
- [x] Automatic gas estimator (experimental)
- [x] Check if address has a pending nonce (transaction) and panic if it does

You can read more about how ABI finding and contract map works [here](./docs/abi_finder_contract_map.md) and about contract store here [here](./docs/contract_store.md).

### Autmoatic gas estimator

This section explains how to configure and understand the automatic gas estimator, which is crucial for executing transactions on Ethereum-based networks. Here’s what you need to know:

#### Configuration Requirements

Before using the automatic gas estimator, it's essential to set the default gas-related parameters for your network:

- **Non-EIP-1559 Networks**: Set the `gas_price` to define the cost per unit of gas if your network doesn't support EIP-1559.
- **EIP-1559 Networks**: If your network supports EIP-1559, set the following:
  - `eip_1559_dynamic_fees`: Enables dynamic fee structure.
  - `gas_fee_cap`: The maximum fee you're willing to pay per gas.
  - `gas_tip_cap`: An optional tip to prioritize your transaction within a block (although if it's set to `0` there's a high chance your transaction will take longer to execute as it will be less attractive to miners, so do set it).

These settings act as a fallback if the gas estimation fails. Additionally, always specify `transfer_gas_fee` for the fee associated with token transfers.

If you do not know if your network supports EIP-1559, but you want to give it a try it's recommended that you also set `gas_price` as a fallback. When we try to use EIP-1559 during gas price estimation, but it fails, we will fallback to using non-EIP-1559 logic. If that one fails as well, we will use hardcoded `gas_price` value.

#### How Gas Estimation Works

Gas estimation varies based on whether the network is a private Ethereum Network or a live network.

- **Private Ethereum Networks**: no estimation is needed. We always use hardcoded values.

For real networks, the estimation process differs for legacy transactions and those compliant with EIP-1559:

##### Legacy Transactions
1. **Initial Price**: Query the network node for the current suggested gas price.
2. **Priority Adjustment**: Modify the initial price based on `gas_price_estimation_tx_priority`. Higher priority increases the price to ensure faster inclusion in a block.
3. **Congestion Analysis**: Examine the last X blocks (as specified by `gas_price_estimation_blocks`) to determine network congestion, calculating the usage rate of gas in each block and giving recent blocks more weight.
4. **Buffering**: Add a buffer to the adjusted gas price to increase transaction reliability during high congestion.

##### EIP-1559 Transactions
1. **Tip Fee Query**: Ask the node for the current recommended tip fee.
2. **Fee History Analysis**: Gather the base fee and tip history from recent blocks to establish a fee baseline.
3. **Fee Selection**: Use the greater of the node's suggested tip or the historical average tip for upcoming calculations.
4. **Priority and Adjustment**: Increase the base and tip fees based on transaction priority (`gas_price_estimation_tx_priority`), which influences how much you are willing to spend to expedite your transaction.
5. **Final Fee Calculation**: Sum the base fee and adjusted tip to set the `gas_fee_cap`.
6. **Congestion Buffer**: Similar to legacy transactions, analyze congestion and apply a buffer to both the fee cap and the tip to secure transaction inclusion.

Understanding and setting these parameters correctly ensures that your transactions are processed efficiently and cost-effectively on the network.

Finally, `gas_price_estimation_tx_priority` is also used, when deciding, which percentile to use for base fee and tip for historical fee data. Here's how that looks:
```go
		case Priority_Fast:
			baseFee = stats.GasPrice.Perc99
			historicalGasTipCap = stats.TipCap.Perc99
		case Priority_Standard:
			baseFee = stats.GasPrice.Perc50
			historicalGasTipCap = stats.TipCap.Perc50
		case Priority_Slow:
			baseFee = stats.GasPrice.Perc25
			historicalGasTipCap = stats.TipCap.Perc25
```

##### Adjustment factor
All values are multiplied by the adjustment factor, which is calculated based on `gas_price_estimation_tx_priority`:
```go
	case Priority_Fast:
		return 1.2
	case Priority_Standard:
		return 1.0
	case Priority_Slow:
		return 0.8
```

##### Buffer precents
We further adjust the gas price by adding a buffer to it, based on congestion rate:
```go
	case Congestion_Low:
		return 0.10, nil
	case Congestion_Medium:
		return 0.20, nil
	case Congestion_High:
		return 0.30, nil
	case Congestion_Degen:
		return 0.40, nil
```

We cache block header data in an in-memory cache, so we don't have to fetch it every time we estimate gas. The cache has capacity equal to `gas_price_estimation_blocks` and every time we add a new element, we remove one that is least frequently used and oldest (with block number being a constant and chain always moving forward it makes no sense to keep old blocks).

For both transaction types if any of the steps fails, we fallback to hardcoded values.

### Experimental features

In order to enable an experimental feature you need to pass it's name in config. It's a global config, you cannot enable it per-network. Example:
```toml
# other settings before...
tracing_enabled = false
trace_to_json = false
experiments_enabled = ["slow_funds_return", "eip_1559_fee_equalizer"]
```

Here's what they do:
* `slow_funds_return` will work only in `core` and when enabled it changes tx priority to `slow` and increases transaction timeout to 30 minutes.
* `eip_1559_fee_equalizer` in case of EIP-1559 transactions if it detects that historical base fee and suggested/historical tip are more than 3 orders of magnitude apart, it will use the higher value for both (this helps in cases where base fee is almost 0 and transaction is never processed).

Commit message:

add basic and optional rpc node health check

README.md, after:

# Seth
Reliable and debug-friendly Ethereum client

[![Decoding tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_decode.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_decode.yml)
[![Tracing tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_trace.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_trace.yml)
[![API tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_api.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_api.yml)
[![CLI tests](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_cli.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_cli.yml)
[![Integration tests (testnets)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_decode_testnet.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/seth/actions/workflows/test_decode_testnet.yml)
<br/>

## Goals
- Be a thin, debuggable and battle tested wrapper on top of `go-ethereum`
- Decode all transaction inputs/outputs/logs for all ABIs you are working with, automatically
- Simple synchronous API
- Do not handle `nonces` on the client side, trust the server
- Do not wrap `bind` generated contracts, small set of additional debug API
- Resilient: should execute transactions even if there is a gas spike or an RPC outage (failover)
- Well tested: should provide a suite of e2e tests that can be run on testnets to check integration

## Examples
Check [examples](./examples) folder

Lib is providing a small amount of helpers for decoding handling that you can use with vanilla `go-ethereum` generated wrappers
```
// Decode waits for transaction and decode all the data/errors
Decode(tx *types.Transaction, txErr error) (*DecodedTransaction, error)

// NewTXOpts returns a new sequential transaction options wrapper,
// sets opts.GasPrice and opts.GasLimit from seth.toml or override with options
NewTXOpts(o ...TransactOpt) *bind.TransactOpts

// NewCallOpts returns a new call options wrapper
NewCallOpts(o ...CallOpt) *bind.CallOpts
```

By default, we are using the `root` key `0`, but you can also use `keys` from `keyfile.toml`
```
// NewCallKeyOpts returns a new sequential call options wrapper from the key N
NewCallKeyOpts(keyNum int, o ...CallOpt) *bind.CallOpts

// NewTXKeyOpts returns a new transaction options wrapper called from the key N
NewTXKeyOpts(keyNum int, o ...TransactOpt) *bind.TransactOpts
```

Start `Geth` in a separate terminal, then run the examples
```
make GethSync
cd examples
go test -v
```

## Setup
We are using [nix](https://nixos.org/)

Enter the shell
```
nix develop
```

## Building contracts
We have `go-ethereum` and [foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry) tools inside `nix` shell
```
make build
```

## Testing
To run tests on a local network, first start it
```
make AnvilSync
```
Or use latest `Geth`
```
make GethSync
```

You can use default `hardhat` key `ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80` to run tests

Run the [decode](./client_decode_test.go) tests
```
make network=Anvil root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test
make network=Geth root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test
```
Check other params in [seth.toml](./seth.toml), select any network and use your key for testnets

User facing API tests are [here](./client_api_test.go)
```
make network=Anvil root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_api
make network=Geth root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_api
```

CLI tests
```
make network=Anvil root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_cli
make network=Geth root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_cli
```

Tracing tests
```
make network=Anvil root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_trace
make network=Geth root_private_key=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 test_trace
```

# Config
### env vars
Some crucial data is stored in env vars, create `.envrc` and use `source .envrc`, or use `direnv`
```
export SETH_LOG_LEVEL=info # global logger level
export SETH_CONFIG_PATH=seth.toml # path to the toml config
export SETH_KEYFILE_PATH=keyfile.toml # keyfile path for using multiple keys
export NETWORK=Geth # selected network
export ROOT_PRIVATE_KEY=ac0974bec39a17e36ba4a6b4d238ff944bacb478cbed5efcae784d7bf4f2ff80 # root private key

alias seth="go run cmd/seth/seth.go" # useful alias for keyfile CLI
```

If `SETH_KEYFILE_PATH` is not set then client will create 60 ephemeral keys and won't return any funds

Use `SETH_KEYFILE_PATH` for testnets/mainnets and `ephemeral` mode only when testing against simulated network
### seth.toml
Set up your ABI directory (relative to `seth.toml`)
```
abi_dir = "contracts/abi"
```

Setup your BIN directory (relative to `seth.toml`)
```
bin_dir = "contracts/bin"
```

You can enable auto-tracing for all transactions, which means that every time you use `Decode()` we will not only decode the transaction but also trace all calls made within the transaction, together with all inputs, outputs, logs and events
```
tracing_enabled = true
```

Additionally you can also enable saving all tracing information to JSON files with:
```
trace_to_json = true
```

If you want to check if the RPC is healthy on start, you can enable it with:
```
check_rpc_health_on_start = false
```
It will execute a simple check of transfering 10k wei from root key to root key and check if the transaction was successful.

You can add more networks like this:
```
[[Networks]]
name = "Fuji"
chain_id = "43113"
transaction_timeout = "30s"
# gas limit should be explicitly set only if you are connecting to a node that's incapable of estimating gas limit itself (should only happen for very old versions)
# gas_limit = 9_000_000
# gas limit for sending funds
transfer_gas_fee = 21_000
# legacy transactions
gas_price = 1_000_000_000
# EIP-1559 transactions
eip_1559_dynamic_fees = true
gas_fee_cap = 25_000_000_000
gas_tip_cap = 1_800_000_000
urls_secret = ["..."]
# if set to true we will check if address has a pending nonce (transaction) and panic if it does
pending_nonce_protection_enabled = false
# if set to true we will dynamically estimate gas for every transaction (explained in more detail below)
gas_price_estimation_enabled = true
# how many last blocks to use, when estimating gas for a transaction
gas_price_estimation_blocks = 1000
# priority of the transaction, can be "fast", "standard" or "slow" (the higher the priority, the higher adjustment factor and buffer will be used for gas estimation) [default: "standard"]
gas_price_estimation_tx_priority = "slow"
```

If you want to save addresses of deployed contracts, you can enable it with:
```
save_deployed_contracts_map = true
```


If you want to re-use previously deployed contracts you can indicate file name in `seth.toml`:
```
contract_map_file = "deployed_contracts_mumbai.toml"
```
Both features only work for live networks. Otherwise, they are ignored, and nothing is saved/read from for simulated networks.

## CLI

### Multiple keys manipulation (keyfile.toml)
To use multiple keys in your tests you can create a `keyfile.toml` using CLI

Set up the alias, see `.envrc` configuration above
```
alias seth="go run cmd/seth/seth.go"
```

Create a new `keyfile` with 10 new accounts funded from the root key (KEYS env var)
```
seth -n Geth keys split -a 10
```
Run the tests, then return funds back, when needed
```
seth -n Geth keys return
```
Update the balances
```
seth -n Geth keys update
```
Remove the `keyfile`
```
seth -n Geth keys remove
```
### Manual gas price estimation
In order to adjust gas price for a transaction, you can use `seth gas` command
```
seth -n Fuji gas -b 10000 -tp 0.99
```
This will analyze last 10k blocks and give you 25/50/75/99th/Max percentiles for base fees and tip fees

`-tp 0.99` requests the 99th tip percentile across all the transaction in one block and calculates 25/50/75/99th/Max across all blocks

### Bulk tracing
You can trace multiple transactions at once using `seth trace` command. Example:
```
SETH_CONFIG_PATH=seth.toml go run cmd/seth/seth.go -n=Geth trace -f reverted_transactions.json
```

You need to pass a file with a list of transaction hashes to trace. The file should be a JSON array of transaction hashes, like this:
```
[
  "0x...",
  "0x...",
  "0x...",
  ...
]
```

(Note that currently Seth automatically creates `reverted_transactions_<network>_<date>.json` with all reverted transactions, so you can use this file as input for the `trace` command.)

## Features
- [x] Decode named inputs
- [x] Decode named outputs
- [x] Decode anonymous outputs
- [x] Decode logs
- [x] Decode indexed logs
- [x] Decode old string reverts
- [x] Decode new typed reverts
- [x] EIP-1559 support
- [x] Multi-keys client support
- [x] CLI to manipulate test keys
- [x] Simple manual gas price estimation
- [ ] Tuned gas prices for testnets (optimized for fast transaction times)
- [ ] Fail over client logic
- [ ] Decode collided event hashes
- [x] Tracing support (4byte)
- [x] Tracing support (callTracer)
- [ ] Tracing support (prestate)
- [x] Tracing decoding
- [x] Tracing tests
- [ ] More tests for corner cases of decoding/tracing
- [x] Saving of deployed contracts mapping (`address -> ABI_name`) for live networks
- [x] Reading of deployed contracts mappings for live networks
- [x] Automatic gas estimator (experimental)
- [x] Check if address has a pending nonce (transaction) and panic if it does

You can read more about how ABI finding and contract map works [here](./docs/abi_finder_contract_map.md) and about contract store here [here](./docs/contract_store.md).

### Autmoatic gas estimator

This section explains how to configure and understand the automatic gas estimator, which is crucial for executing transactions on Ethereum-based networks. Here’s what you need to know:

#### Configuration Requirements

Before using the automatic gas estimator, it's essential to set the default gas-related parameters for your network:

- **Non-EIP-1559 Networks**: Set the `gas_price` to define the cost per unit of gas if your network doesn't support EIP-1559.
- **EIP-1559 Networks**: If your network supports EIP-1559, set the following:
  - `eip_1559_dynamic_fees`: Enables dynamic fee structure.
  - `gas_fee_cap`: The maximum fee you're willing to pay per gas.
  - `gas_tip_cap`: An optional tip to prioritize your transaction within a block (although if it's set to `0` there's a high chance your transaction will take longer to execute as it will be less attractive to miners, so do set it).

These settings act as a fallback if the gas estimation fails. Additionally, always specify `transfer_gas_fee` for the fee associated with token transfers.

If you do not know if your network supports EIP-1559, but you want to give it a try it's recommended that you also set `gas_price` as a fallback. When we try to use EIP-1559 during gas price estimation, but it fails, we will fallback to using non-EIP-1559 logic. If that one fails as well, we will use hardcoded `gas_price` value.

#### How Gas Estimation Works

Gas estimation varies based on whether the network is a private Ethereum Network or a live network.

- **Private Ethereum Networks**: no estimation is needed. We always use hardcoded values.

For real networks, the estimation process differs for legacy transactions and those compliant with EIP-1559:

##### Legacy Transactions
1. **Initial Price**: Query the network node for the current suggested gas price.
2. **Priority Adjustment**: Modify the initial price based on `gas_price_estimation_tx_priority`. Higher priority increases the price to ensure faster inclusion in a block.
3. **Congestion Analysis**: Examine the last X blocks (as specified by `gas_price_estimation_blocks`) to determine network congestion, calculating the usage rate of gas in each block and giving recent blocks more weight.
4. **Buffering**: Add a buffer to the adjusted gas price to increase transaction reliability during high congestion.

##### EIP-1559 Transactions
1. **Tip Fee Query**: Ask the node for the current recommended tip fee.
2. **Fee History Analysis**: Gather the base fee and tip history from recent blocks to establish a fee baseline.
3. **Fee Selection**: Use the greater of the node's suggested tip or the historical average tip for upcoming calculations.
4. **Priority and Adjustment**: Increase the base and tip fees based on transaction priority (`gas_price_estimation_tx_priority`), which influences how much you are willing to spend to expedite your transaction.
5. **Final Fee Calculation**: Sum the base fee and adjusted tip to set the `gas_fee_cap`.
6. **Congestion Buffer**: Similar to legacy transactions, analyze congestion and apply a buffer to both the fee cap and the tip to secure transaction inclusion.

Understanding and setting these parameters correctly ensures that your transactions are processed efficiently and cost-effectively on the network.

Finally, `gas_price_estimation_tx_priority` is also used, when deciding, which percentile to use for base fee and tip for historical fee data. Here's how that looks:
```go
		case Priority_Fast:
			baseFee = stats.GasPrice.Perc99
			historicalGasTipCap = stats.TipCap.Perc99
		case Priority_Standard:
			baseFee = stats.GasPrice.Perc50
			historicalGasTipCap = stats.TipCap.Perc50
		case Priority_Slow:
			baseFee = stats.GasPrice.Perc25
			historicalGasTipCap = stats.TipCap.Perc25
```

##### Adjustment factor
All values are multiplied by the adjustment factor, which is calculated based on `gas_price_estimation_tx_priority`:
```go
	case Priority_Fast:
		return 1.2
	case Priority_Standard:
		return 1.0
	case Priority_Slow:
		return 0.8
```

##### Buffer precents
We further adjust the gas price by adding a buffer to it, based on congestion rate:
```go
	case Congestion_Low:
		return 0.10, nil
	case Congestion_Medium:
		return 0.20, nil
	case Congestion_High:
		return 0.30, nil
	case Congestion_Degen:
		return 0.40, nil
```

We cache block header data in an in-memory cache, so we don't have to fetch it every time we estimate gas. The cache has capacity equal to `gas_price_estimation_blocks` and every time we add a new element, we remove one that is least frequently used and oldest (with block number being a constant and chain always moving forward it makes no sense to keep old blocks).

For both transaction types if any of the steps fails, we fallback to hardcoded values.

### Experimental features

In order to enable an experimental feature you need to pass it's name in config. It's a global config, you cannot enable it per-network. Example:
```toml
# other settings before...
tracing_enabled = false
trace_to_json = false
experiments_enabled = ["slow_funds_return", "eip_1559_fee_equalizer"]
```

Here's what they do:
* `slow_funds_return` will work only in `core` and when enabled it changes tx priority to `slow` and increases transaction timeout to 30 minutes.
* `eip_1559_fee_equalizer` in case of EIP-1559 transactions if it detects that historical base fee and suggested/historical tip are more than 3 orders of magnitude apart, it will use the higher value for both (this helps in cases where base fee is almost 0 and transaction is never processed).
